# Longitudinal-Data-Analysis
The data for this report are from the Diabetes Control and Complications Trial (DCCT) conducted between 1983 and 1986.  Patients with type 1 diabetes (T1D) were recruited from 29 medical centers in the U.S. and Canada, were randomized to intensive or standard therapy, and asked to complete physical exam visits for 9 years.  In this study, the objective was to identify the trajectories of weight gain, which has not been reported yet.  The investigators conceptualized that the first 3 years represents acute period in weight gain and later years represent a maintenance period.  The primary questions of interest were whether the rates of change in weight gain differ for the treatment groups, whether the rate of weight gain differs before and after 3 years of follow-up, and how A1C influences changes in weight over time.  To access the above questions, we hypothesized 1) that the association between time and rates of change in weight gain significantly depends on treatments and the annual rates of weight gain differ between the first 3 year of treatment (acute period) and after 3 years follow-up (maintenance period) in both two treatment groups; 2) that HBA1C has mediation effects and the difference of annual change between two treatment groups in acute period and/or maintenance period would shrink after adjusting HBA1C.  To test the above hypothesis, the primary outcome would be BMI and the predictors include time, treatments and other necessary factors.  In addition, it is known that the investigators picked 3 years only because it seemed like most of the weight gain happened in the first three years.  Thus, the secondary question of interest in this study was whether a change at 3 years was the right cut point.
